Prioritization, I feel like
I've talked about this like
indirectly a bunch of times because
you all stop bringing it up [LAUGH].
But turns out,
it's actually really important.
It's like one of the biggest things
that a product manager does,
a lot of my job as an engineer comes to me
is I can do task A, or I can do task B.
And I need you to choose so it's your
fault if it was the wrong one to work on
A lot of it's just owning the risk, right?
So if you own so much risk,
you better learn how to manage the risk.
So you always, always, always have more
work than you could ever possibly do.
I have never met a PM in
my entire life who's like,
we're actually out of stuff to do.
I really can't think of one.
You know who probably says that?
The PM of Craigslist.
Craig ran out of stuff to do.
I don't know who Craig is, but
what I actually admire about the product
of Craigslist is like,
they're like, we're done.
We did it.
We finished it.
Super stable is incredibly stable and
it's a good product and
they make a ton of money.
Bananas anyway, if you are the PM of
Craigslist and you're listening to this,
you can just shut it off and go hang out
in your yacht, right like it's fine.
You can ignore this section
of the course right?
You did it, everybody else tune in
because I've never met another PM
that would say we're out of things to do.
So frequently the question is like
do I work on A or do I work on B?
It's just obvious.
A is mission-critical, B is not,
we're gonna work on A, right?
Or Z is on fire and alpha will wait.
We'll work on Z, right?
So, lean into your intuition
where that's possible a ladders
up into a project that is
mission critical to our metrics,
and B,
affects like one of our secondary metrics.
You're probably gonna do A.
So, what do you do when you have A and
B and they are, in your eyes,
roughly of same importance?
This is where this can get a bit dicey.
So I'm gonna give you two
different tools that I use
to assess which thing
I should work on next.
So I'll do the simple one first.
This one's usually enough for most things.
So trying to, yeah, we're ultimately
trying to judge three things here impact.
How many people can we
impact in which ways?
How risky is it?
And what's the cost here?
Cost can be people, cost can be money,
cost can be resources going out, right?
Impact, risk, and cost ultimately,
everything that I'm gonna talk about here
more or less correlates to
one of these two things.
Sorry, three things.
Impact is a roll up idea
of how many people and
how deeply am I going to affect them.
If you don't migrate your database
in your server is gonna overload and
crash that affects all of your
users that's highly impactful.
What if you add support to an obscure
language to your application for
a demographic of users not
using your application.
Low impact, right high effort,
very costful, low impact there.
You can probably put that on
the backlog if that feels important for
you to support.
Risk is the idea of how likely
something is going to happen.
So, if you're a stripe and
you are not paying out someone correctly,
that's a high risk that they're gonna
find out that you did that, right?
I would also argue it's ethically,
you should probably pay people
the money if they're due, but it's
a very risky thing because people keep
track of their money very, very closely.
I'm sure you can imagine like less
risky situations of like, what happens
if someone sends a direct message and
it fails to send the first time.
So they have to send it again, not
incredibly risky is particularly if it's
like a low likelihood of tap and right.
I would judge that to be a low risk
kind of situation where the failure
state is not very expensive and the
recovery state is extremely easy for them.
It's not preferable.
It could be fixed.
It doesn't necessarily have to be
the highest prioritized thing.
Actually, famously, Facebook notifications
for like a decade were incorrect, right?
I don't remember if you remember
like old blue Facebook where
you would go on there and it would be
the wrong amount of notifications and
you'd have phantom notifications.
You'd click on it.
Nothing would be there.
You'd close it again, and
then you would click it again and
like it would go back and
it would never be right?
That's because they just judged that
as like not a very impactful thing
because the,
while it did happen to a lot of people,
like the risk of them actually doing
anything about it was fairly low, right?
All right, so, yeah we kind of
talked about what risk is and
all those kinds of things.
So, complexity versus
business value matrix, right?
This is just one that's kind of good
to keep in your mind, high impact,
low effort, high impact, blah, blah, blah.
Generally if if something has high impact,
low effort, that's like a must do.
If something is a low impact,
high effort, it's a throw away.
And then here is where you kind of
have to really kind of judge things so
this is just a useful way to kind of
visualize okay if I'm in this one I'm just
gonna do it right away.
And this one,
if I'm in this one I'm not gonna do it and
then if I'm in one of these that's
when I'll go to the like more
advanced matrix of how
to judge prioritization.
So I talked about it before, but
I'll talk about it here again.
This is the RICE method,
and it is from Intercom,
which is a company that many
of us have used great company.
I like this one really resonated with me.
So there's many ways to judge priority,
and
this is just the one that
stuck with me the most.
So this is what I'm gonna teach you.
But if it doesn't resonate with you, there
are lots of other ones just search for
prioritization framework and Google and
you will find a trillion of them.
So at intercom apparently they do this for
everything and
they always judge correctly by the score.
I am not such a stickler for
the rules here.
I still allow for my own sense of product
sense to be infused here because this is,
we're this is a squishy science.
So, you're being paid for
your opinion here.
So, use it.
So, the RICE method R is reach,
which is how many people will this effect?
It's generally a good proxy for
the reach of whatever you're going to do.
It helps you kind of avoid,
this will be so impactful,
particularly when it comes to power users,
right?
Because power users will be very loud.
Hey, we really want this
feature yesterday, but
when you would go ask yourself,
What's the reach of this and
it's only 100 people out of your 100,000
users, it helps you kind of keep in line.
Yeah, maybe this is good for our 100
people and that's impactful to them but
we don't have to cater to their every
whim because we have so many other users.
Okay, so after reach.
Yeah, and
this is measured in people quarterly or
people whatever time
period you're looking for.
So let's say it was 400,000, right,
people in a quarter,
that's what your number would be here.
Impact is a scale value for
how impactful something will be.
And the numbers that they give here is
3 is the massive most awesome impact,
2 is for high impact, 1 is for
medium impact or average impact,
0.5 is for low impact and
0.25 is for minimal.
So I think you can see how reach and
impact are kind of combining together to
get you a good number of what we should be
thinking about if you affect
all of your million users.
And it's minimal impact,
that's actually better than high
impact for a hundred users, right?
So it kind of helps you keep us
a grip on reach versus impact.
How many people is this affecting versus
how much does it affect them, okay.
Confidence, I quite liked
this one as well, and
a lot of other things didn't
have this kind of built into it.
But confidence is like, how confident
are you in your estimations here, right?
So I am 50% sure, this is going to do
exactly what I think it's gonna do, right?
And if you do that,
then you are 0.5 right?
And so you have whatever you thought
your reach at times impact was and
if you're 100% confident that this is
definitely going to do this right?
A good example is like if I don't fix the
database my website's not gonna come back
up that's 100%.
I am definitely confident
if I don't have a database,
my website doesn't work, right?
Whereas, like, if I add an additional
button here for them to see their profile,
I'm like 50% confident that's
gonna do anything, right.
So that's kind of what that value helps
you do is it helps you kind of scale down.
Based on how confident you
are in your assessments there.
They say for anything that you are less
than 50% confident in, go revise
your hypothesis until you arrive to
something that you are 50% confident in.
Don't do anything under 50% confidence.
Because that means if
you're leaning towards it,
this is probably not gonna work.
So go find something that
you think is gonna work.
Okay, and then E is for effort.
This is how many people working for
how long to ship it measured
in person months, right?
So if a project needs three days for
two months, it is a six on effort, right?
Once you have your numbers,
it is reach times impact times confidence
divided by effort, and
that yields you a RICE score.
Now you have more or less apples
to apples number of this is how
impactful I think this
thing's going to be.
And I use this somewhat frequently
when I have things in front of me that
I'm not really sure which one's
more important than the other.
I don't do this for my entire roadmap.
I probably should, and
I know people that do.
I generally just use it
as a tool to break ties.
So it's a tool for discussion it's a
school for unlogged jamming conversations
I actually like this to take in
a meeting sometimes as like, hey.
Let's like break down which of these is
more important than the other it helps
you get talking to other people
in terms of reach and confidence.
And you can argue over things like
we think this is high impactful,
we think this is low confidence,
blah, blah, blah.
But at least you're talking about
something in particular rather than like,
this is more important than this, right?
It helps break it down into
values that you can talk about.
But I wouldn't take this as gospel cuz I
think if you do that, you end up doing
probably things that you probably end
up deprioritizing some of your betts.
And sometimes that product sense,
that gut feeling is really important,
as a product manager.